IP:- or Internet Protocol, is the protocol that is used to define the source and destination IP address of a packet as it traverses the internet. It is often used in conjunction with other protocols such as TCP; hence, the often-used conjunction, TCP/IP.

Protocols :- Protocols are similar. A protocol simply defines a way of communication with all its rules. These rules are usually defined by an RFC (Request for Comments).

The OSI Model from a Cybersecurity Perspective
    1. APPICATIONS - EXPOIT
    2. Presentation - phishing
    3. Session - Hijacking
    4. Transport - reconnaissance
    5. Network - Man-in-the-Middle MiTM
    6. Data Link - SPOOFING
    7. Physical - sniffing

Generic Domains: .com(commercial), .edu(educational), .mil(military), .org(nonprofit organization), .net(similar to commercial) all these are generic domains.
Country Domain: .in (India) .us .uk
Inverse Domain: if we want to know what is the domain name of the website. IP to domain name mapping. So DNS can provide both the mapping for example to find the IP addresses of geeksforgeeks.org then we have to type 
Organization of Domain : parulunivarcity.ac.in

classes based on their network size, range, and purpose. The most commonly discussed IP address classes are A, B, C. Each class is defined by the leading bits in the first octet (the first 8 bits) and serves different purposes in network architecture.
A. 1.Range: 1.0.0.0 to 126.0.0.0
   2.Default Subnet Mask: 255.0.0.0
B. 1. Range: 128.0.0.0 to 191.255.0.0
   2. Default Subnet Mask: 255.255.0.0
C. Range: 192.0.0.0 to 223.255.255.0
    Default Subnet Mask: 255.255.255.0
    D (Multicast)
    Range: 224.0.0.0 to 239.255.255.255
    Purpose: Used for multicast groups, where data is sent to multiple hosts simultaneously.

http/3:-
        1. HTTP/3 is built on top of the QUIC (Quick UDP Internet Connections) protocol, which uses UDP (User Datagram Protocol)
        2. HTTP/3 reduces the time it takes to establish a connection with a server.connection setup into a single process, reducing latency.
        3. End-to-End Security: Like HTTPS, HTTP/3 is encrypted by default, ensuring data security and privacy for users.

Sniffing
Involves intercepting and collecting network traffic as it passes through a network. Sniffing can be used by network administrators to monitor and troubleshoot network traffic, or by attackers to capture sensitive information like passwords and account details. Sniffing can be done actively or passively.

Spoofing
Involves disguising a communication or identity to make it appear to come from a trusted source. Spoofing can be used to gain access to personal information, steal data, spread malware, or acquire money. Spoofing attacks can take many forms, including email spoofing and caller ID spoofing. 

Wireless Networks
                1. wlan
                2. wpan
                3. wman
                2. wwan

2 IP WHY?
        *Multiple Network Interfaces: You have both Ethernet and Wi-Fi connections active, each with its own IP address.
        *IPv4 and IPv6 Addresses: Your network may be using both IPv4 and IPv6, so you see one of each.
        *Virtual Network Adapters: Virtualization software may create additional virtual network interfaces with their own IP addresses.
        *VPN Connection: A VPN may create a virtual network adapter with a separate IP address.
        *APIPA Address: Your system may have self-assigned an APIPA address (169.254.x.x) if it couldn’t get an IP from the DHCP server.

NMAP:-
    command-line tool
use :- network exploration and security auditing
    Real time information of a network
    Detailed information of all the IPs activated on your network
    Number of ports open in a network
    Provide the list of live hosts
    Port, OS and Host scanning
    penetration testing 
    vulnerability scans
